# Question 1

Assume that you are asked to design and develop a system that supports software developers in performing software testing.

• Design a set of 10 user stories that are specifically to this application. Note that your user stories must reflect the functionalities that are unique this kind of application. Generic user stories for normal software applications (e.g. log in, log out, create or edit account, registration, change password, etc.) will receive 0 mark.\
• Design a UML component diagram for this system. Your component diagram must support the above user stories. Generic component diagrams will receive 0 mark.\
• Give 3 examples of changes that can be introduced to this system once it has been developed. Each change should represent each type of software maintenance discussed in the subject.
Your discussion must be specific to this case study. Generic answers copied from the lecture slides or other sources will be given 0 mark.

## a. User Stories

1. As a developer, I want to be able to create a test case so that I can test my code.
2. As a developer, I want to be able to run a test case so that I can test my code.
3. As a developer, I want to be able to see the results of a test case so that I can see if my code is working correctly.
4. As a developer, I want an integrated testing framework that supports multiple programming languages, so that I can write and execute tests in my preferred language.
5. As a developer, I want the system to generate comprehensive test reports, including test coverage metrics, to assess the overall quality and effectiveness of my testing efforts.
6. As a developer, I want to be able to automate the running of tests so that I can save time.
7. As a developer, I want to be able to clearly communicate the results of a test so that I can easily understand the results.
8. As a developer, I want to be able to automate the sending of results of the test cases to my team so that they can see the results.
9. As a developer, I want to develop user friendly interface so that I can easily create and modify test scenarios for different software components.
10. As a developer, I want the system to provide easy integration with bug tracking systems (e.g., JIRA), enabling me to link test failures to specific issues for efficient bug resolution.

## b. UML Component Diagram

## c. Software Maintenance

# Question 2

Assume that a software company is following Rational Unified Process in developing the above software system in Question 1.

Discuss how the company can demonstrate that it meets all the process areas specifically set out for Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Level 3.

Your answer must be specific to this case study. Generic answers copied from the lecture slides or other sources will be given 0 mark.

# Question 3

Assume that you are asked to develop a software system for real estate (i.e. selling and purchasing houses and properties).

Propose (and explain your reasons) a functionality of this software that can be developed using the data-driven approach discussed in the subject.

What data should be collected and how to collect them to develop this functionality? What features should be extracted from the collected data and why?

What are the ethical considerations specific to this functionality? Discuss how you would address them during the development and operation of the system.

Your discussion must be specific to this case study. Generic answers copied from the lecture slides or any other sources will be given 0 mark.
